# NLPAssignments

Assignments for NLP course, followed during the master degree in Artificial Intelligence @ UniVR.

## Assignment n.1

The assignment consists in the development, in NLTK, OpenNLP, SketchEngine or GATE/Annie a Naïve Bayes Classifier able to detect a single class in one of the corpora available as attachments to the chosen package, by distinguishing ENGLISH against NON-ENGLISH. In particular the classifier has to be:

1. Trained on a split subset of the chosen corpus, by either using an existing partition between sample documents for training and for test or by using a random splitter among the available ones;

2. Devised as a pipeline of any chosen format, including the simplest version based on word2vec on a list of words obtained by one of the available lexical resources.

The test of the classifier shall give out the measures of accuracy, precision, recall on the obtained confusion matrix and WILL NOT BE EVALUATED ON THE LEVEL OF THE PERFORMANCES. In other terms, when the confusion is produced, then the value of the assignment will be good, independently of the percentage of false positive and negative results.

Deliver a short set of comments on the experience (do not deliver the entire code, but link it on a public repository like GitHub or the GATE Repo).\
Discuss: size of the corpus, size of the split training and test sets, performance indicators employed and their nature, employability of the classifier as a Probabilistic Language Model.

## Assignment n.2

The assignment consists in the development, in NLTK, OpenNLP, SketchEngine or GATE/Annie a pipeline that, starting from a text in input, in a given language (English, French, German and Italian are admissible) outputs the syntactic tree of the sentence itself, intended as a tree with root in S for sentence, and leaves on the tokens labelled with a single Part-of-speech. The generation of the tree can pass through one of the following models:

1. **PURE SYMBOLIC** The tree is generated by a LR analysis with CF LL2 grammar as a base. Candidates can assume the following:

    a. Adjectives in English and German shall be only prefixed to nouns, whilst in French and Italian are only suffixed;

    b. Verbs are all at present tense;

    c. No pronouns are admitted;

    d. Only one adverb is admitted, always post-poned with respect to the verb (independently of the language, and the type of adverb);

    Overall the point above map a system that could be devised in regular expressions, but a Context-free grammar would be simpler to define. Candidate can either define a system by themselves or use a syntactic tree generation system that can be found on GitHub.\
    Same happens for POS-tagging, where some of the above mentioned systems can be customized by existing techniques that are available in several fashions (including a pre-defined NLTK and OpenNLP libraries for POS-tagging and a module in GATE for the same purpose. Ambiguity should be blocked onto first admissible tree.

2. **PURE ML** Candidates can develop a PLM with one-step Markov chains to forecast the following token, and used to generate the forecast of the POS tags to be attributed. In this case the PLM can be generated starting with a Corpus, that could be obtained online, for instance by using the Wikipedia access API, or other available free repos (including those available with SketchEngine. In this approach, candidates should
never use the forecasting to approach the determination of outcomes (for this would be identical purpose of distinguishing EN/non ENG (and then IT/non IT, FR/not FR or DE/not DE) but only to identify the POS model in a sequence. In this case, the candidate should output the most
likely POS tagging, without associating the sequence to a tree in a direct fashion.

Candidates are free to employ PURE ML approach to simplify, or pre-process the text in order to improve the performance of a PURE SYMBOLIC approach while generating a mixed model.
